
* option to set window margin
* option to add section outer box
* option to set limits based on associated image (and change dynamically...)
o need consistency of graph defaults : axis, tick, labels should come from kapa
o clear should erase current plot

-> The "plot" command needs to be fixed so that boundaries of contours do
not cause it to draw excessive amounts of lines connecting unrelated
contours. A specific "contour line type" would be useful.
(-pt 100?)

-> DVO does not plot the end-points of histograms properly (e.g., the
line from the final data point on each end down to the x-axis is missing)
(fixed)

-> When opening a file of output, the "echo" and "fprintf" commands do not
relay output to the file in the same order. Also, until DVO is closed, the
output does not appear in the file.
(fixed both issues)

-> DVO is not consistently placing the x/y axis labels, especially in
user-defined sections of the plot window. 
(fixed)
* box -labelpad -labelpad[x,y] +labelpad[x,y] -


---


1)You wanted me to remind you to update ~ipp-svn; this was so I could have
the latest version of DVO on-hand

2)The plotting of axis labels remains inconsistent; depending on section
dimensions and the presence/absence of tick-marks, labels will change
their distance from their corresponding axis. This results in labels
falling off the screen or overlapping with other plot sections

3)Plot section locations in the plot window shift if labels/tick-marks are
present or absent

4)It would be useful to have an option for the box or section command that
causes the background to be opaque. This will allow plots to have insets.

5)It would be useful to have a rectangle plotting command in order to
shade out regions on plots

6)The limits command combined with box will sometimes produce tick-marks
with only the zero-point labeled, making the axes difficult to interpret

7)Text is printed to a file at different times when using either the echo
or fprintf commands alongside the output command. Sometimes output is
printed to the file immediately, while other times it is printed only when
the file is closed for output.

8)The use of ^C as an interrupt does not always work when a macro is doing
for loops.

9)It would be useful for DVO to echo which line of a macro contains an
error, or at which line it was forced to stop. This would help debugging a
lot.

10)The cgrid could use an option to print RA/DEC tick-mark labels so that
image plots would be more informative
