
The number of DVO support programs probably needs to expand.  I am
specifically considering the types of functions I need to perform the
photometric and astrometric calibrations needed by Pan-STARRS, ie the
AP Survey.

dvo DB manipulations:

  - create a subset of a database (restrict by magnitude limits, time, 
    region, etc)
  - re-organize the table structure using a new SkyTable file
  - remove the automatic extension of the secfilt table; make a mode to 
    add a new secondary filter

dvo DB organization mods:

  - drop the primary photcodes and put all primaries in the 'secfilt' table
  - construct a FITS table for the photcodes
  - tables for the camera and filter data which is currently in the config
  - tools to update the photcode table

addstar : need a few additional new variations on the addstar concept

  - load2mass : the raw 2MASS format is so broken, I needed to create
  a special stand-alone program to load the 2MASS catalog data to a
  given DVO database.

  - sedstar : this program uses an existing DVO database, and fits the
    (calibrated) stellar photometry to a set of stellar photometry
    models.  One goal is to predict magnitudes in other filters from
    the observed data.  Another goal is to determine the fundamental
    stellar parameters (eg, Temp, Av, logg, distance).  Another goal
    is to determine the stellar locus coordinates for use in other
    fitting functions.

    output magnitudes should be in photcodes of DEP type? or SED type?

    
relastro : the basic concept of this program is fairly clear, but we
  need to work out the details a bit.  The program should determine
  the image astrometry terms, the average stellar coordinates, and
  things like proper-motion and parallax.  It needs to include both
  the raw astrometry from the images as well as (high-quality)
  external reference sources.  Dave Monet thinks the initial
  conditions (errors and systematics in the external catalogs) drive
  the solutions too strongly.  He is exploring doing direct
  (non-iterative) solutions using the psSparse tools.  I'm not totally
  convinced yet...
