
This directory contains several routines which are related to
maintaining a small, elixir-internal databases about the images which
have been obtained.

This database can be used to find the location on disk of the images
which we have analysed, or to display various statistics about images,
or to find types of images which have been obtained.  

The basic program is 'imregister', which places the basic information
about an image in the database, as determined from the header.  The
program is invoked with: {\tt imregister (filename) [-split]}.  The
optional flag is used to tell the program to distinguish the
individual (SPLIT) frames of a mosaic CCD from an individual CCD which
should be treated as an isolated image.  

The second program is 'imsort', which does the same task as
'imregister', but it also sends a trigger to the IMSTAT elixir and if
needed to the PTOLEMY elixir.  For this program, the -split flag makes
a difference in how these images are treated in the elixir processes.
The basic point is that a SINGLE image /fullpath/filename.fits
produces analysis files of the form /newpath/filename.ext while a
SPLIT image will have the form /fullpath/word/wordNN.fits and output
files of the form /newpath/word/wordNN.ext.  

May 11, 2000

I have been working to clean up some of the details of the Elixir
system.  There are three big issues I have been attempting to address.
First, I have wanted to create a single set of Elixirs for both MEF
and SPLIT (and even SINGLE) images.  I also want to minimize the
number of programs are required to know something special about our
system, our camera, or our method of naming files.  Finally, I have
been trying to automate the selection of the appropriate detrend data.
These are connected problems, in many ways.

Here, in order, are the programs (and scripts) needed to run the
Elixir system for which these issues are relevant:

elixir.fork:  this program is launched by the camera to introduce a
	      new image to the system.  It must understand the
	      difference between SPLIT and MEF, and also the naming
	      convention.

imsort:	      this program adds the image to the database and passes a
	      trigger to the elixirs ptolemy and imstats.  imsort
	      needs to distinguish SPLIT, MEF, and SINGLE images, and
	      it must know the naming convention.  

elixir (ptolemy): this script is now independent of the mode and
		  naming issues

elixir (imstats): this script is now independent of the mode and
		  naming issues

flatten:	  this script needs to distinguish SPLIT and MEF
		  images (it is told the mode by the input line), but
		  it does not know the naming convention.

imstats:	  this script needs to distinguish SPLIT and MEF
		  images (it is told the mode by the input line), but
		  it does not know the naming convention.

